# LED handling under Linux

In its simplest form, the LED class just allows
control of LEDs from userspace. LEDs appear in
/sys/class/leds/. The maximum brightness of the
LED is defined in max_brightness file. The
brightness file will set the brightness of the LED
(taking a value 0-max_brightness). Most LEDs don’t
have hardware brightness support so will just be
turned on for non-zero brightness settings.

The class also introduces the optional concept of
an LED trigger. A trigger is a kernel based source
of led events. Triggers can either be simple or
complex. A simple trigger isn’t configurable and
is designed to slot into existing subsystems with
minimal additional code. Examples are the
disk-activity, nand-disk and sharpsl-charge
triggers. With led triggers disabled, the code
optimises away.

Complex triggers while available to all LEDs have
LED specific parameters and work on a per LED
basis. The timer trigger is an example. The timer
trigger will periodically change the LED
brightness between LED_OFF and the current
brightness setting. The “on” and “off” time can be
specified via
/sys/class/leds/<device>/delay_{on,off} in
milliseconds. You can change the brightness value
of a LED independently of the timer trigger.
However, if you set the brightness value to
LED_OFF it will also disable the timer trigger.

You can change triggers in a similar manner to the
way an IO scheduler is chosen (via
/sys/class/leds/<device>/trigger). Trigger
specific parameters can appear in
/sys/class/leds/<device> once a given trigger is
selected. 

[Source](https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/v6.2/leds/leds-class.html#led-handling-under-linux)
