# Global attribute - popover

## Popover API

Used to designate an element as a popover element.

## Concepts and usage

A very common pattern on the web is to show content over the top of other content, drawing the user's attention to specific important information or actions that need to be taken. 
This content can take several different names — overlays, popups, popovers, dialogs, etc. 
We will refer to them as popovers through the documentation. 
Generally speaking, these can be:
- modal, meaning that while a popover is being shown, the rest of the page is rendered non-interactive until the popover is actioned in some way
- non-modal, meaning that the rest of the page can be interacted with while the popover is being shown

Popovers created using the Popover API are always non-modal. 
If you want to create a modal popover, a <dialog> element is the right way to go. 

Typical use cases for the popover API include user-interactive elements like action menus, custom "toast" notifications, form element suggestions, content pickers, or teaching UI.

A related feature — interest invokers — can be used to show popovers on hover/focus, without requiring JavaScript.

Popover elements are hidden via `display: none`  
until opened via an invoking/control element (i.e.  
a <button> or <input type="button"> with a  
popovertarget attribute) or a  
HTMLElement.showPopover() call.

## HTML attributes

- popover  
A global attribute that turns an element into a popover element; takes a popover state ("auto", "hint", or "manual") as its value.

- popovertarget  
Turns a <button> or <input> element into a popover control button; takes the ID of the popover element to control as its value.

- popovertargetaction  
Specifies the action to be performed ("hide", "show", or "toggle") on the popover element being controlled by a control <button> or <input>.

## CSS features

- ::backdrop  
The ::backdrop pseudo-element is a full-screen element placed directly behind popover elements, allowing effects to be added to the page content behind the popover(s) if desired (for example blurring it out).

- :interest-source and :interest-target  
These selectors can be used to apply styles to the interest invoker and its associated target element, respectively, only when interest is indicated.

- :popover-open  
The :popover-open pseudo-class matches a popover element only when it is in the showing state — it can be used to style popover elements when they are showing.

## Examples

```html
<button popovertarget="my-popover">Open Popover</button>
<div popover id="my-popover">Greetings, one and all!</div>

<button popovertarget="my-popover"> Open Popover </button>
<div id="my-popover" popover>
  <p>I am a popover with more information.</p>
</div>

<button popovertarget="my-popover" popovertargetaction="hide">
    <span aria-hidden="true">❌</span>
    <span class="sr-only">Close</span>
</button>
```

## Anchor positioning

```html
<button id="menu-toggle" popovertarget="menu-items">
  Open Menu
</button>
<ul id="menu-items" popover anchor="menu-toggle">
  <li class="item">...</li>
  <li class="item">...</li>
</ul>
```

```css
#menu-items {
  bottom: anchor(bottom);
  left: anchor(center);
  translate: -50% 0;
}
```

[Source](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/introducing-popover-api/)
[MDN Popover API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API) 
