# Elements

There are six different kinds of elements: void elements, the template element, raw text elements, escapable raw text elements, foreign elements, and normal elements.

**Void elements**  
area, base, br, col, embed, hr, img, input, link, meta, source, track, wbr

**The template element**   
template

**Raw text elements**  
script, style

**Escapable raw text elements**  
textarea, title

**Foreign elements**  
Elements from the MathML namespace and the SVG namespace.

**Normal elements**  
All other allowed HTML elements are normal elements.


Tags are used to delimit the start and end of elements in the markup. 
Raw text, escapable raw text, and normal elements have a start tag to indicate where they begin, and an end tag to indicate where they end. 
The start and end tags of certain normal elements can be omitted, as described below in the section on optional tags. Those that cannot be omitted must not be omitted. 
Void elements only have a start tag; end tags must not be specified for void elements. 
Foreign elements must either have a start tag and an end tag, or a start tag that is marked as self-closing, in which case they must not have an end tag.


**Void** elements can't have any contents (since there's no end tag, no content can be put between the start tag and the end tag).

The template element can have template contents, but such template contents are not children of the template element itself. Instead, they are stored in a DocumentFragment associated with a different Document — without a browsing context — so as to avoid the template contents interfering with the main Document. The markup for the template contents of a template element is placed just after the template element's start tag and just before template element's end tag (as with other elements), and may consist of any text, character references, elements, and comments, but the text must not contain the character U+003C LESS-THAN SIGN (<) or an ambiguous ampersand.

Raw text elements can have text, though it has restrictions described below.

Escapable raw text elements can have text and character references, but the text must not contain an ambiguous ampersand. There are also further restrictions described below.

Foreign elements whose start tag is marked as self-closing can't have any contents (since, again, as there's no end tag, no content can be put between the start tag and the end tag). Foreign elements whose start tag is not marked as self-closing can have text, character references, CDATA sections, other elements, and comments, but the text must not contain the character U+003C LESS-THAN SIGN (<) or an ambiguous ampersand.

Normal elements can have text, character references, other elements, and comments, but the text must not contain the character U+003C LESS-THAN SIGN (<) or an ambiguous ampersand. Some normal elements also have yet more restrictions on what content they are allowed to hold, beyond the restrictions imposed by the content model and those described in this paragraph. Those restrictions are described below.


Tags contain a tag name, giving the element's name. HTML elements all have names that only use ASCII alphanumerics. In the HTML syntax, tag names, even those for foreign elements, may be written with any mix of lower- and uppercase letters that, when converted to all-lowercase, matches the element's tag name; tag names are case-insensitive.
