# Tag <form>

Defines an HTML form for user input, represents a document section containing interactive controls for submitting information.

`display: block;`  

## Attributes

- accept-charset  
The character encoding accepted by the server. 
The specification allows a single case-insensitive value of "UTF-8", reflecting the ubiquity of this encoding.

- autocapitalize  
Controls whether inputted text is automatically capitalized and, if so, in what manner.

- autocomplete  
Indicates whether input elements can by default have their values automatically completed by the browser. 
autocomplete attributes on form elements override it on <form>. 
Possible values:
    - off: The browser may not automatically complete entries.
    - on: The browser may automatically complete entries.

- name  
The name of the form. The value must not be the empty string, and must be unique among the form elements in the forms collection that it is in, if any. 
The name becomes a property of the Window, Document, and document.forms objects, containing a reference to the form element.

- rel  
Controls the annotations and what kinds of links the form creates. 
Annotations include external, nofollow, opener, noopener, and noreferrer. 
Link types include help, prev, next, search, and license. 
The rel value is a space-separated list of these enumerated values.

## Attributes for form submission

The following attributes control behavior during form submission.

- action  
The URL that processes the form submission. 
This value can be overridden by a formaction attribute on a <button>, <input type="submit">, or <input type="image"> element. 
This attribute is ignored when method="dialog" is set.

- enctype  
If the value of the method attribute is post, enctype is the MIME type of the form submission. 
Possible values:
    - application/x-www-form-urlencoded: The default value.
    - multipart/form-data: Use this if the form contains <input> elements with type=file.
    - text/plain: Useful for debugging purposes.

    This value can be overridden by formenctype attributes on <button>, <input type="submit">, or <input type="image"> elements.

- method  
The HTTP method to submit the form with. 
The only allowed methods/values are (case insensitive):
    - post: The POST method; form data sent as the request body.
    - get (default): The GET; form data appended to the action URL with a ? separator. Use this method when the form has no side effects.
    - dialog: When the form is inside a <dialog>, closes the dialog and causes a submit event to be fired on submission, without submitting data or clearing the form.

    This value is overridden by formmethod attributes on <button>, <input type="submit">, or <input type="image"> elements.

- novalidate  
This Boolean attribute indicates that the form shouldn't be validated when submitted. 
If this attribute is not set (and therefore the form is validated), it can be overridden by a formnovalidate attribute on a <button>, <input type="submit">, or <input type="image"> element belonging to the form.

- target  
Indicates where to display the response after submitting the form. 
It is a name/keyword for a browsing context (for example, tab, window, or iframe). 
The following keywords have special meanings:
    - _self (default): Load into the same browsing context as the current one.
    - _blank: Load into a new unnamed browsing context. This provides the same behavior as setting rel="noopener" which does not set window.opener.
    - _parent: Load into the parent browsing context of the current one. If no parent, behaves the same as _self.
    - _top: Load into the top-level browsing context (i.e., the browsing context that is an ancestor of the current one and has no parent). If no parent, behaves the same as _self.
    - _unfencedTop: Load the response from a form inside an embedded fenced frame into the top-level frame (i.e., traversing beyond the root of the fenced frame, unlike other reserved destinations). Only available inside fenced frames.

    This value can be overridden by a formtarget attribute on a <button>, <input type="submit">, or <input type="image"> element.

## Examples

```html
<!-- Form which will send a GET request to the current URL -->
<form method="get">
  <label>
    Name:
    <input name="submitted-name" autocomplete="name" />
  </label>
  <button>Save</button>
</form>

<!-- Form which will send a POST request to the current URL -->
<form method="post">
  <label>
    Name:
    <input name="submitted-name" autocomplete="name" />
  </label>
  <button>Save</button>
</form>

<!-- Form with fieldset, legend, and label -->
<form method="post">
  <fieldset>
    <legend>Do you agree to the terms?</legend>
    <label><input type="radio" name="radio" value="yes" /> Yes</label>
    <label><input type="radio" name="radio" value="no" /> No</label>
  </fieldset>
</form>
```

[MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/form) 
