# Loaders

The Bun bundler implements a set of default
loaders out of the box. As a rule of thumb, the
bundler and the runtime both support the same set
of file types out of the box.

```
.js .cjs .mjs .mts .cts .ts .tsx .jsx .toml .json .txt .wasm .node
```

Bun uses the file extension to determine which
built-in loader should be used to parse the file. 

## json

```javascript
import pkg from "./package.json";
pkg.name; // => "my-package"
```

If a .json file is passed as an entrypoint to the
bundler, it will be converted to a .js module that
export defaults the parsed object.

```json
{
  "name": "John Doe",
  "age": 35,
  "email": "johndoe@example.com"
}
```

```javascript
export default {
  name: "John Doe",
  age: 35,
  email: "johndoe@example.com"
}
```

## toml

```javascript
import config from "./bunfig.toml";
config.logLevel; // => "debug"
```

If a .toml file is passed as an entrypoint, it
will be converted to a .js module that export
defaults the parsed object.

## text

The contents of the text file are read and inlined
into the bundle as a string. Text files can be
directly imported. The file is read and returned
as a string.

```javascript
import contents from "./file.txt";
console.log(contents); // => "Hello, world!"

// To import an html file as text
// The "type' attribute can be used to override the default loader.
import html from "./index.html" with { type: "text" };
```

## sqlite

`with { "type": "sqlite" }` import attribute

In the runtime and bundler, SQLite databases can
be directly imported. This will load the database
using `bun:sqlite`.

```javascript
import db from "./my.db" with { type: "sqlite" };

// embed the database into the bundle
import db from "./my.db" with { type: "sqlite", embed: "true" };
```

## file

Default for all unrecognized file types.

The file loader resolves the import as a path/URL
to the imported file. It's commonly used for
referencing media or font assets.

```javascript
import logo from "./logo.svg";
console.log(logo);
```

In the runtime, Bun checks that the logo.svg file
exists and converts it to an absolute path to the
location of logo.svg on disk.

```javascript
bun run logo.ts
/path/to/project/logo.svg
```

In the bundler, things are slightly different. The
file is copied into outdir as-is, and the import
is resolved as a relative path pointing to the
copied file.

```javascript
var logo = "./logo.svg";
console.log(logo);
```

If a value is specified for publicPath, the import
will use value as a prefix to construct an
absolute path/URL.
