# Starting Vim arguments

-S {file}	The {file} will be sourced after the first file has been read.
		This is an easy way to do the equivalent of: 
			-c "source {file}"
		It can be mixed with "-c" arguments and repeated like "-c".
		The limit of 10 "-c" arguments applies here as well.
		{file} cannot start with a "-".

		Do not use this for running a script to do some work and exit
		Vim, you won't see error messages.  Use -u instead.

-u {vimrc}	The file {vimrc} is read for initializations.  Most other
		initializations are skipped; see initialization.

		This can be used to start Vim in a special mode, with special
		mappings and settings.  A shell alias can be used to make
		this easy to use.  For example: 
			alias vimc vim -u ~/.c_vimrc !*
		Also consider using autocommands; see autocommand.

		When {vimrc} is equal to "NONE" (all uppercase), all
		initializations from files and environment variables are
		skipped, including reading the gvimrc file when the GUI
		starts.  Loading plugins is also skipped.

		When {vimrc} is equal to "NORC" (all uppercase), this has the
		same effect as "NONE", but loading plugins is not skipped.

		When {vimrc} is equal to "DEFAULTS" (all uppercase), this has
		the same effect as "NONE", but the defaults.vim script is
		loaded, which will also set 'nocompatible'.  Also see
		--clean.

		Using the "-u" argument with another argument than DEFAULTS
		has the side effect that the 'compatible' option will be on by
		default.  This can have unexpected effects.  See
		'compatible'.

```sh
vi -S ./localconfig.vim newfilw.txt
vi -u ./localconfig.vim newfilw.txt
```
