# Useful ex command is :so (short for :source)

This reads the contents of a file as a series of  
commands. When you start vi it normally,  
implicitly, performs a :source on ~/.exinitrc  
file (and Vim usually does this on ~/.vimrc,  
naturally enough). The use of this is that you  
can change your editor profile on the fly by  
simply sourcing in a new set of macros,  
abbreviations, and editor settings. If you're  
sneaky you can even use this as a trick for  
storing sequences of ex editing commands to apply  
to files on demand.  

For example I have a seven line file (36  
characters) which runs a file through wc, and  
inserts a C-style comment at the top of the file  
containing that word count data. I can apply that  
"macro" to a file by using a command like:  
vim +'so mymacro.ex' ./mytarget  

(The + command line option to vi and Vim is  
normally used to start the editing session at a  
given line number. However it's a little known  
fact that one can follow the + by any valid ex  
command/expression, such as a "source" command as  
I've done here; for a simple example I have  
scripts which invoke: vi +'/foo/d|wq!'  
~/.ssh/known_hosts to remove an entry from my SSH  
known hosts file non-interactively while I'm  
re-imaging a set of servers).  
