# Data URLs

Data URLs, URLs prefixed with the data: scheme,
allow content creators to embed small files inline
in documents.

## Syntax

Data URLs are composed of four parts: a prefix
(data:), a MIME type indicating the type of data,
an optional base64 token if non-textual, and the
data itself:

```
data:[<mediatype>][;base64],<data>
```

The mediatype is a MIME type string, such as
'image/jpeg' for a JPEG image file. If omitted,
defaults to text/plain;charset=US-ASCII.

### A few examples

`data:,Hello%2C%20World%21`
The text/plain data Hello, World!. Note how the
comma is percent-encoded as %2C, and the space
character as %20.

`data:text/plain;base64,SGVsbG8sIFdvcmxkIQ==`
base64-encoded version of the above

`data:text/html,%3Ch1%3EHello%2C%20World%21%3C%2Fh1%3E`
An HTML document with <h1>Hello, World!</h1>

`data:text/html,%3Cscript%3Ealert%28%27hi%27%29%3B%3C%2Fscript%3E`
An HTML document with
<script>alert('hi');</script> that executes a
JavaScript alert. Note that the closing script tag
is required.

## Encoding data into base64 format

Base64 is a group of binary-to-text encoding
schemes that represent binary data in an ASCII
string format by translating it into a radix-64
representation. By consisting only of characters
permitted by the URL syntax ("URL safe"), we can
safely encode binary data in data URLs. Base64
uses the characters + and /, which may have
special meanings in URLs. Because Data URLs have
no URL path segments or query parameters, this
encoding is safe in this context.

### Encoding on a Unix system

```sh
echo -n hello|base64
# outputs to console: aGVsbG8=

echo -n hello>a.txt
base64 a.txt
# outputs to console: aGVsbG8=

base64 a.txt>b.txt
# outputs to file b.txt: aGVsbG8=
```

[Source](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/Data_URLs)
