# Commands


(.)a  
Appends text to the buffer after the addressed
line. The address '0' (zero) is valid for this
command; it places the entered text at the
beginning of the buffer. Text is entered in input
mode. The current address is set to the address of
the last line entered or, if there were none, to
the addressed line.  

(.,.)c  
Changes lines in the buffer. The addressed lines
are deleted from the buffer, and text is inserted
in their place. Text is entered in input mode. The
current address is set to the address of the last
line entered or, if there were none, to the new
address of the line after the last line deleted;
if the lines deleted were originally at the end of
the buffer, the current address is set to the
address of the new last line; if no lines remain
in the buffer, the current address is set to zero.
The lines deleted are copied to the cut buffer.  

(.,.)d  
Deletes the addressed lines from the buffer. The
current address is set to the new address of the
line after the last line deleted; if the lines
deleted were originally at the end of the buffer,
the current address is set to the address of the
new last line; if no lines remain in the buffer,
the current address is set to zero. The lines
deleted are copied to the cut buffer.  

f file  
Sets the default filename to file, whether or  
not file names an existing file. If file is not  
specified, then the default filename is printed.  

(.)i  
Inserts text in the buffer before the
addressed line. The address '0' (zero) is valid
for this command; it places the entered text at
the beginning of the buffer. Text is entered in
input mode. The current address is set to the
address of the last line entered or, if there were
none, to the addressed line.(.)i
    Inserts text in the buffer before the
addressed line. The address '0' (zero) is valid
for this command; it places the entered text at
the beginning of the buffer. Text is entered in
input mode. The current address is set to the
address of the last line entered or, if there were
none, to the addressed line.   

(.,.)m(.)  
Moves lines in the buffer. The addressed lines
are moved to after the right-hand destination
address. The destination address '0' (zero) is
valid for this command; it moves the addressed
lines to the beginning of the buffer. It is an
error if the destination address falls within the
range of lines to be moved. The current address is
set to the new address of the last line moved.   

(.,.)p  
Prints the addressed lines. 

($)r file  
Reads file and appends it after the addressed  
line.  

(1,$)w file  
Writes the addressed lines to file,  
automatically creating any missing parent  
directories.  

(1,$)wq file  
Writes the addressed lines to file, and then
executes a 'q' command.  

(1,$)W file  
Appends the addressed lines to the end of file.  

(.)x  
Copies (puts) the contents of the cut buffer to
after the addressed line. The current address is
set to the address of the last line copied.  

(.,.)y  
Copies (yanks) the addressed lines to the cut
buffer.

!command  
Shell escape command. Executes command via sh.  
