# Better commit message

*Capitalization and Punctuation*: Capitalize the first word and do not end in punctuation. If using Conventional Commits, remember to use all lowercase.

*Mood*: Use imperative mood in the subject line. Example – Add fix for dark mode toggle state. Imperative mood gives the tone you are giving an order or request.

*Type of Commit*: Specify the type of commit. It is recommended and can be even more beneficial to have a consistent set of words to describe your changes. Example: Bugfix, Update, Refactor, Bump, and so on. See the section on Conventional Commits below for additional information.

*Length*: The first line should ideally be no longer than 50 characters, and the body should be restricted to 72 characters.

*Content*: Be direct, try to eliminate filler words and phrases in these sentences (examples: though, maybe, I think, kind of). Think like a journalist. 


## Conventional Commits

Covered basic commit structure of a good commit 
message

```
<type>[optional scope]: <description>

[optional body]

[optional footer(s)]
```

### The commit type can include the following:

feat – a new feature is introduced with the changes
fix – a bug fix has occurred
chore – changes that do not relate to a fix or feature and don't modify src or test files (for example updating dependencies)
refactor – refactored code that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
docs – updates to documentation such as a the README or other markdown files
style – changes that do not affect the meaning of the code, likely related to code formatting such as white-space, missing semi-colons, and so on.
test – including new or correcting previous tests
perf – performance improvements
ci – continuous integration related
build – changes that affect the build system or external dependencies
revert – reverts a previous commit

## EXAMPLE

```
fix: fix foo to enable bar

This fixes the broken behavior of the component by doing xyz. 
```

```
BREAKING CHANGE
Before this fix foo wasn't enabled at all, behavior changes from <old> to <new>
```
