# Triple-slash directives 

Triple-slash directives are single-line comments
containing a single XML tag. The contents of the
comment are used as compiler directives.

Triple-slash directives are only valid at the top
of their containing file.Triple-slash directives
are single-line comments containing a single XML
tag. The contents of the comment are used as
compiler directives.

Triple-slash directives are only valid at the top
of their containing file.  

## /// <reference types="..." />

Similar to a /// <reference path="..." />
directive, which serves as a declaration of
dependency, a /// <reference types="..." />
directive declares a dependency on a package.

For example, including /// <reference types="node"
/> in a declaration file declares that this file
uses names declared in @types/node/index.d.ts; and
thus, this package needs to be included in the
compilation along with the declaration file.

## /// <reference lib="..." />

This directive allows a file to explicitly include
an existing built-in lib file.

Built-in lib files are referenced in the same
fashion as the lib compiler option in
tsconfig.json (e.g. use lib="es2015" and not
lib="lib.es2015.d.ts", etc.).

For example, adding /// <reference
lib="es2017.string" /> to one of the files in a
compilation is equivalent to compiling with --lib
es2017.string.

```typescript
/// <reference lib="es2017.string" />
"foo".padStart(4);
```

## /// <reference path="..." />

The /// <reference path="..." /> directive is the
most common of this group. It serves as a
declaration of dependency between files.

Triple-slash references instruct the compiler to
include additional files in the compilation
process.

