# Base64 

Base64 is a group of similar binary-to-text
encoding schemes that represent binary data in an
ASCII string format by transforming it into a
radix-64 representation. The term Base64
originates from a specific MIME content transfer
encoding.

When the term "Base64" is used on its own to refer
to a specific algorithm, it typically refers to
the version of Base64 outlined in RFC 4648,
section 4, which uses the following alphabet to
represent the radix-64 digits, alongside = as a
padding character:

```
ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789+/
```

A common variant is "Base64 URL safe", which omits
the padding and replaces +/ with -_ to avoid
characters that might cause problems in URL path
segments or query parameters.

Base64 encoding schemes are commonly used to
encode binary data for storage or transfer over
media that can only deal with ASCII text.

## Encoded size increase

Each Base64 digit represents 6 bits of data. So,
three 8-bit bytes of the input string/binary file
(3×8 bits = 24 bits) can be represented by four
6-bit Base64 digits (4×6 = 24 bits).

This means that the Base64 version of a string or
file is typically roughly a third larger than its
source.

## JavaScript support

- Window.btoa() (also available in workers):
  creates a Base64-encoded ASCII string from a
  string of binary data ("btoa" should be read as
  "binary to ASCII").
- Window.atob() (also available in workers):
  decodes a Base64-encoded string ("atob" should
  be read as "ASCII to binary").

[Source MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Base64)
