# bash keyword declare

```sh
declare [-aAfFgiIlnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...]
typeset [-aAfFgiIlnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...]
```

Declare variables and/or give them attributes. If  
no names are given then display the values of  
variables.  The `-p` option will display the  
attributes and values of each name.

The following options can be used to restrict  
output to variables with the specified attribute  
or to give variables attributes:  
- -a     Each name is an indexed array variable (see Arrays above).
- -A     Each name is an associative array variable (see Arrays above).
- -f     Use function names only.
- -i     The variable is treated as an integer; arithmetic evaluation (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION above) is performed when the variable is assigned a value.
- -l     When the variable is assigned a value, all upper‐case characters are converted to lower‐case.  The upper‐case attribute is disabled.
- -n     Give each name the nameref attribute, making it a name reference to another variable.  That other variable is defined by the value of name.  All references, assignments, and  attribute  modifica‐
tions to name, except those using or changing the -n attribute itself, are performed on the variable referenced by name’s value.  The nameref attribute cannot be applied to array variables.
- -r     Make names readonly.  These names cannot then be assigned values by subsequent assignment statements or unset.
- -t     Give each name the trace attribute.  Traced functions inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps from the calling shell.  The trace attribute has no special meaning for variables.
- -u     When the variable is assigned a value, all lower‐case characters are converted to upper‐case.  The lower‐case attribute is disabled.
- -x     Mark names for export to subsequent commands via the environment.
