# Serving Static Content

A server that listens on the standard port 80 and  
is accessible on the local machine at  
http://localhost/  

```nginx.conf
http {
    server {
    	location / {
        	root /data/www;
    	}

    	location /images/ {
        	root /data;
    	}
    }
}
``` 

## Describe above config file:  

In response to requests with URIs starting with  
/images/, the server will send files from the  
/data/images directory. For example, in response  
to the http://localhost/images/example.png  
request nginx will send the  
/data/images/example.png file. If such file does  
not exist, nginx will send a response indicating  
the 404 error. Requests with URIs not starting  
with /images/ will be mapped onto the /data/www  
directory. For example, in response to the  
http://localhost/some/example.html request nginx  
will send the /data/www/some/example.html file.  

## Directive "root"  

Syntax: 	root path;  
Default: 	root html;  
Sets the root directory for requests. For  
example, with the following configuration  

```nginx.conf
location /i/ {
    root /data/w3;
}
```

The /data/w3/i/top.gif file will be sent in  
response to the “/i/top.gif” request.  


To apply the new configuration, start nginx if it  
is not yet started or send the reload signal to  
the nginx’s master process, by executing:  
```sh
nginx -s reload
```

In case something does not work as expected, you  
may try to find out the reason in access.log and  
error.log files in the directory  
/usr/local/nginx/logs or /var/log/nginx.  

Generally, the configuration file may include  
several server blocks distinguished by ports on  
which they listen to and by server names. Once  
nginx decides which server processes a request,  
it tests the URI specified in the request’s  
header against the parameters of the location  
directives defined inside the server block.  

This location block specifies the “/” prefix  
compared with the URI from the request.  
If there are several matching location blocks  
nginx selects the one with the longest prefix.  
