# HTTP authentication

## The general HTTP authentication framework

RFC 7235 defines the HTTP authentication
framework, which can be used by a server to
challenge a client request, and by a client to
provide authentication information.

The challenge and response flow works like this:

1.The server responds to a client with a 401 (Unauthorized) response status and provides information on how to authorize with a WWW-Authenticate response header containing at least one challenge.
2.A client that wants to authenticate itself with the server can then do so by including an Authorization request header with the credentials.
3.Usually a client will present a password prompt to the user and will then issue the request including the correct Authorization header.
 
## WWW-Authenticate and Proxy-Authenticate headers

The WWW-Authenticate and Proxy-Authenticate
response headers define the authentication method
that should be used to gain access to a resource.
They must specify which authentication scheme is
used, so that the client that wishes to authorize
knows how to provide the credentials.

```http
WWW-Authenticate: <type> realm=<realm>
Proxy-Authenticate: <type> realm=<realm>
```

## Authorization and Proxy-Authorization headers

The Authorization and Proxy-Authorization request
headers contain the credentials to authenticate a
user agent with a (proxy) server.

```http
Authorization: <type> <credentials>
Proxy-Authorization: <type> <credentials>
```

## Basic authentication scheme

The "Basic" HTTP authentication scheme is defined
in RFC 7617, which transmits credentials as user
ID/password pairs, encoded using base64.

### Security of basic authentication

As the user ID and password are passed over the
network as clear text (it is base64 encoded, but
base64 is a reversible encoding), the basic
authentication scheme is not secure. HTTPS/TLS
should be used with basic authentication. Without
these additional security enhancements, basic
authentication should not be used to protect
sensitive or valuable information.

[Source MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Authentication)
