# TCP handshake

[Source MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/TCP_handshake) 

TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) uses a
three-way handshake (aka TCP-handshake, three
message handshake, and/or SYN-SYN-ACK) to set up a
TCP/IP connection over an IP based network.

The three messages transmitted by TCP to negotiate
and start a TCP session are nicknamed SYN,
SYN-ACK, and ACK for SYNchronize,
SYNchronize-ACKnowledgement, and ACKnowledge
respectively. The three message mechanism is
designed so that two computers that want to pass
information back and forth to each other can
negotiate the parameters of the connection before
transmitting data such as HTTP browser requests.

The host, generally the browser, sends a TCP
SYNchronize packet to the server. The server
receives the SYN and sends back a
SYNchronize-ACKnowledgement. The host receives the
server's SYN-ACK and sends an ACKnowledge. The
server receives ACK and the TCP socket connection
is established.

This handshake step happens after a DNS lookup and
before the TLS handshake, when creating a secure
connection. The connection can be terminated
independently by each side of the connection via a
four-way handshake.
