# Populating the page: how browsers work

## Navigation

Navigation is the first step in loading a web
page. It occurs whenever a user requests a page by
entering a URL into the address bar, clicking a
link, submitting a form, as well as other actions.

### DNS lookup

### TCP handshake

### TLS negotiation

## Response

Once we have an established connection to a web
server, the browser sends an initial HTTP GET
request on behalf of the user, which for websites
is most often an HTML file. Once the server
receives the request, it will reply with relevant
response headers and the contents of the HTML.

This response for this initial request contains
the first byte of data received. Time to First
Byte (TTFB) is the time between when the user made
the request — say by clicking on a link — and the
receipt of this first packet of HTML. The first
chunk of content is usually 14KB of data.

The request is definitely less than 14KB, but the
linked resources aren't requested until the
browser encounters the links during parsing,
described below.

## Parsing

Once the browser receives the first chunk of data,
it can begin parsing the information received.
Parsing is the step the browser takes to turn the
data it receives over the network into the DOM and
CSSOM, which is used by the renderer to paint a
page to the screen.

Even if the requested page's HTML is larger than
the initial 14KB packet, the browser will begin
parsing and attempting to render an experience
based on the data it has. This is why it's
important for web performance optimization to
include everything the browser needs to start
rendering a page, or at least a template of the
page — the CSS and HTML needed for the first
render — in the first 14KB. But before anything is
rendered to the screen, the HTML, CSS, and
JavaScript have to be parsed.

### Building the DOM tree

The first step is processing the HTML markup and
building the DOM tree.

The DOM tree describes the content of the
document. The <html> element is the first element
and root node of the document tree.

When the parser finds non-blocking resources, such
as an image, the browser will request those
resources and continue parsing. Parsing can
continue when a CSS file is encountered, but
<script> elements — particularly those without an
async or defer attribute — block rendering, and
pause the parsing of HTML. Though the browser\'s
preload scanner hastens this process, excessive
scripts can still be a significant bottleneck.

### Preload scanner

While the browser builds the DOM tree, this
process occupies the main thread. As this happens,
the preload scanner will parse through the content
available and request high-priority resources like
CSS, JavaScript, and web fonts. Thanks to the
preload scanner, we don't have to wait until the
parser finds a reference to an external resource
to request it. It will retrieve resources in the
background so that by the time the main HTML
parser reaches the requested assets, they may
already be in flight or have been downloaded. The
optimizations the preload scanner provides reduce
blockages.

While the main thread is parsing the HTML and CSS,
the preload scanner will find the scripts and
image, and start downloading them as well. To
ensure the script doesn't block the process, add
the async attribute, or the defer attribute if
JavaScript parsing and execution order is
important.

Waiting to obtain CSS doesn't block HTML parsing
or downloading, but it does block JavaScript
because JavaScript is often used to query CSS
properties' impact on elements.

### Building the CSSOM tree

The second step in the critical rendering path is
processing CSS and building the CSSOM tree.The
second step in the critical rendering path is
processing CSS and building the CSSOM tree.

Building the CSSOM is very, very fast and is not
displayed in a unique color in current developer
tools. Rather, the "Recalculate Style" in
developer tools shows the total time it takes to
parse CSS, construct the CSSOM tree, and
recursively calculate computed styles. In terms of
web performance optimization, there are lower
hanging fruit, as the total time to create the
CSSOM is generally less than the time it takes for
one DNS lookup.

### JavaScript compilation

While the CSS is being parsed and the CSSOM
created, other assets, including JavaScript files,
are downloading.

### Building the accessibility tree

The browser also builds an accessibility tree that
assistive devices use to parse and interpret
content. The accessibility object model (AOM) is
like a semantic version of the DOM. The browser
updates the accessibility tree when the DOM is
updated. The accessibility tree is not modifiable
by assistive technologies themselves.

## Render

### Style

The third step in the critical rendering path is
combining the DOM and CSSOM into a render tree.
The computed style tree, or render tree,
construction starts with the root of the DOM tree,
traversing each visible node.

Each visible node has its CSSOM rules applied to
it.

### Layout

The fourth step in the critical rendering path is
running layout on the render tree to compute the
geometry of each node. Layout is the process by
which the dimensions and location of all the nodes
in the render tree are determined, plus the
determination of the size and position of each
object on the page. Reflow is any subsequent size
and position determination of any part of the page
or the entire document.

To determine the exact size and position of each
object, the browser starts at the root of the
render tree and traverses it.

The first time the size and position of each node
is determined is called layout. Subsequent
recalculations of are called reflows.

### Paint

The last step in the critical rendering path is
painting the individual nodes to the screen, the
first occurrence of which is called the first
meaningful paint.

To ensure smooth scrolling and animation, must
take the browser less than 16.67ms to accomplish.

### Compositing

When sections of the document are drawn in
different layers, overlapping each other,
compositing is necessary to ensure they are drawn
to the screen in the right order and the content
is rendered correctly.

## Interactivity
