# HTTP Using cookies 

Is a small piece of data that a server sends to a
user's web browser.

Cookies are mainly used for three purposes:

Session management  
Logins, shopping carts, game scores, or anything else the server should remember

Personalization  
User preferences, themes, and other settings

Tracking  
Recording and analyzing user behavior

Cookies are sent with every request, so they can
worsen performance Cookies are sent with every
request, so they can worsen performance.

## Creating cookies

After receiving an HTTP request, a server can send
one or more `Set-Cookie` headers with the response.
The browser usually stores the cookie and sends it
with requests made to the same server inside a
`Cookie` HTTP header.

```http
Set-Cookie: <cookie-name>=<cookie-value>

HTTP/2.0 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html
Set-Cookie: yummy_cookie=choco
Set-Cookie: tasty_cookie=strawberry

[page content]

GET /sample_page.html HTTP/2.0
Host: www.example.org
Cookie: yummy_cookie=choco; tasty_cookie=strawberry
```

### Define the lifetime of a cookie

```http
Set-Cookie: id=a3fWa; Expires=Thu, 31 Oct 2021 07:28:00 GMT;
```

### Restrict access to cookies

You can ensure that cookies are sent securely and
aren't accessed by unintended parties or scripts
in one of two ways: with the `Secure` attribute and
the `HttpOnly` attribute.

```http
Set-Cookie: id=a3fWa; Expires=Thu, 21 Oct 2021 07:28:00 GMT; Secure; HttpOnly
```

### SameSite attribute

The SameSite attribute lets servers specify
whether/when cookies are sent with cross-site
requests. This provides some protection against
cross-site request forgery attacks (CSRF).

```http
Set-Cookie: mykey=myvalue; SameSite=Strict
```

## Third-party cookies

If the domain and scheme are different, the cookie
is not considered to be from the same site, and is
referred to as a third-party cookie. While the
server hosting a web page sets first-party
cookies, the page may contain components stored on
servers in other domains, such as images or other
documents embedded in <iframe>s. These components
may set third-party cookies.

Typical use cases for third-party cookies include
sharing user profile information or collecting
analytics across different related domains. They
are also often used for advertising and tracking
users across the web.  
