# HTTP method PUT

The HTTP PUT request method creates a new resource
or replaces a representation of the target
resource with the request payload.

The difference between PUT and POST is that PUT is
idempotent: calling it once or several times
successively has the same effect (that is no side
effect).

## Example

### Request

```http
PUT /new.html HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 16

<p>New File</p>
```

### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Content-Location: /new.html

HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
Content-Location: /existing.html
```

If the target resource does not have a current representation and the PUT successfully creates one, then the origin server MUST inform the user agent by sending a 201 (Created) response. If the target resource does have a current representation and that representation is successfully modified in accordance with the state of the enclosed representation, then the origin server MUST send either a 200 (OK) or a 204 (No Content) response to indicate successful completion of the request.

An origin server SHOULD verify that the PUT representation is consistent with its configured constraints for the target resource. For example, if an origin server determines a resource's representation metadata based on the URI, then the origin server needs to ensure that the content received in a successful PUT request is consistent with that metadata. When a PUT representation is inconsistent with the target resource, the origin server SHOULD either make them consistent, by transforming the representation or changing the resource configuration, or respond with an appropriate error message containing sufficient information to explain why the representation is unsuitable. The 409 (Conflict) or 415 (Unsupported Media Type) status codes are suggested, with the latter being specific to constraints on Content-Type values.
