# Property margin

Sets all the margin properties in one declaration

- When one value is specified, it applies the same margin to all four sides.
- When two values are specified, the first margin applies to the top and bottom, the second to the left and right.
- When three values are specified, the first margin applies to the top, the second to the right and left, the third to the bottom.
- When four values are specified, the margins apply to the top, right, bottom, and left in that order (clockwise).

## Horizontal centering

In modern browsers
```css
display: flex; justify-content: center;
```

In older browsers
```css
margin: 0 auto;
```

## Margin collapsing

Elements' top and bottom margins are sometimes  
collapsed into a single margin that is equal to  
the larger of the two margins.

Note that the margins of floating and absolutely  
positioned elements never collapse.

Margins don't collapse in a container with  
display set to flex or grid.

Collapsing margins is only relevant in the  
vertical direction.

### Margin collapsing occurs in three basic cases:

- Adjacent siblings. The margins of adjacent  
  siblings are collapsed.
- No content separating parent and descendants.  
- Empty blocks. 
  If there is no border, padding, inline content,  
  height, or min-height to separate a block's  
  margin-top from its margin-bottom, then its top  
  and bottom margins collapse.

## Values

`auto`  
The browser selects a suitable margin to use. For  
example, in certain cases this value can be used  
to center an element.

`<percentage>`  
The size of the margin as a percentage, relative  
to the inline size (width in a horizontal  
language, defined by writing-mode) of the  
containing block.

`<length>`  
The size of the margin as a fixed value.

## Syntax

```css
/* Apply to all four sides */
margin: 1em;
margin: -3px;

/* top and bottom | left and right */
margin: 5% auto;

/* top | left and right | bottom */
margin: 1em auto 2em;

/* top | right | bottom | left */
margin: 2px 1em 0 auto;

/* Global values */
margin: inherit;
margin: initial;
margin: revert;
margin: revert-layer;
margin: unset;
```
