# Property font-size

Specifies the font size of text

## Syntax

/* <absolute-size> values */
font-size: xx-small;
font-size: x-small;
font-size: small;
font-size: medium;
font-size: large;
font-size: x-large;
font-size: xx-large;
font-size: xxx-large;

/* <relative-size> values */
font-size: smaller;
font-size: larger;

/* <length> values */
font-size: 12px;
font-size: 0.8em;

/* <percentage> values */
font-size: 80%;

/* math value */
font-size: math;

/* Global values */
font-size: inherit;
font-size: initial;
font-size: revert;
font-size: revert-layer;
font-size: unset;

## Values

xx-small, x-small, small, medium, large, x-large, xx-large, xxx-large  
Absolute-size keywords, based on the user's default font size (which is medium).

larger, smaller  
Relative-size keywords. The font will be larger or smaller relative to the parent element's font size, roughly by the ratio used to separate the absolute-size keywords above.

<length>  
A positive <length> value. For most font-relative units (such as em and ex), the font size is relative to the parent element's font size.
For font-relative units that are root-based (such as rem), the font size is relative to the size of the font used by the <html> (root) element.

<percentage>  
A positive <percentage> value, relative to the parent element's font size.

math  
Scaling rules are applied when determining the computed value of the font-size property for math elements relative to the font-size of the containing parent. See the math-depth property for more information.

## Example

.small {
  font-size: xx-small;
}
.larger {
  font-size: larger;
}
.point {
  font-size: 24pt;
}
.percent {
  font-size: 200%;
}

