# Property display

Specifies how a certain HTML element should be 
displayed.

The display CSS property sets whether an element 
is treated as a block or inline box and the 
layout used for its children, such as flow 
layout, grid or flex.

## Property values

- contents - Makes the container disappear, making the child elements children of the element the next level up in the DOM
- inline - Displays an element as an inline element (like <span>). Any height and width properties will have no effect. This is default.
- block - Displays an element as a block element (like <p>). It starts on a new line, and takes up the whole width
- flex - Displays an element as a block-level flex container
- grid - Displays an element as a block-level grid container
- flow-root - The element generates a block box that establishes a new block formatting context, defining where the formatting root lies.

## Syntax

```css
/* precomposed values */
display: block;
display: inline;
display: inline-block;
display: flex;
display: inline-flex;
display: grid;
display: inline-grid;
display: flow-root;

/* box generation */
display: none;
display: contents;

/* multi-keyword syntax */
display: block flex;
display: block flow;
display: block flow-root;
display: block grid;
display: inline flex;
display: inline flow;
display: inline flow-root;
display: inline grid;

/* other values */
display: table;
display: table-row; /* all table elements have an equivalent CSS display value */
display: list-item;

/* Global values */
display: inherit;
display: initial;
display: revert;
display: revert-layer;
display: unset;
```

[Source MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/display)

## Using the multi-keyword syntax with CSS display

What grid and flexbox demonstrate, however, is 
that an element has both an outer and an inner 
display type. The outer display type describes 
whether the element is block-level or 
inline-level. The inner display type describes 
how the children of that box behave.

As an example, when we use display: flex we 
create a block-level container, with flex 
children. The children are described as 
participating in a flex formatting context. You 
can see this if you take a <span> — normally an 
inline-level element — and apply display: flex 
to it. The <span> becomes a block-level element.

This means that instead of setting display: flex 
to create a block-level box with flex children, 
we use display: block flex. Instead of 
display: inline-flex to create an inline-level 
box with flex children, we use display: inline 
flex.

| Single value 	 | Multi value       |
|----------------|-------------------|
| block          |	block flow       |
| flow-root      |	block flow-root  |
| inline         |	inline flow      |
| inline-block   |	inline flow-root |
| flex           |	block flex       |
| inline-flex    |	inline flex      |
| grid           |	block grid       |
| inline-grid    |	inline grid      |

[Source MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/display/multi-keyword_syntax_of_display)
