# Property border-image

The `border-image` CSS property draws an image around a given element. It replaces the element's regular border.

This property is a shorthand for the following CSS properties:
- border-image-outset
- border-image-repeat
- border-image-slice
- border-image-source
- border-image-width

## Syntax

`
/* source | slice */
border-image: linear-gradient(red, blue) 27;

/* source | slice | repeat */
border-image: url("/images/border.png") 27 space;

/* source | slice | width */
border-image: linear-gradient(red, blue) 27 / 35px;

/* source | slice | width | outset | repeat */
border-image: url("/images/border.png") 27 23 / 50px 30px / 1rem round space;

/* Global values */
border-image: inherit;
border-image: initial;
border-image: revert;
border-image: revert-layer;
border-image: unset;

## Values

<'border-image-source'>  
The source image. See border-image-source.

<'border-image-slice'>  
The dimensions for slicing the source image into regions. Up to four values may be specified. See border-image-slice.

<'border-image-width'>  
The width of the border image. Up to four values may be specified. See border-image-width.

<'border-image-outset'>  
The distance of the border image from the element's outside edge. Up to four values may be specified. See border-image-outset.

<'border-image-repeat'>  
Defines how the edge regions of the source image are adjusted to fit the dimensions of the border image. Up to two values may be specified. See border-image-repeat.

## Formal definition

### Initial value

- border-image-source: none
- border-image-slice: 100%
- border-image-width: 1
- border-image-outset: 0
- border-image-repeat: stretch

### Applies to

all elements, except internal table elements when border-collapse is collapse. It also applies to ::first-letter.

### Inherited

No

[MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/border-image) 
