# Target size

The target size must at least be 44 by 44 CSS
pixels and it shouldn’t overlap with other
targets.  

As per Google Design for Driving guidelines, the
minimum touch target size is 76dp * 76dp.  

## Spacing around the targets

Make sure that the spacing between each target
is enough and prevent clicking or tapping a target
by mistake.  

The average size of the index finger is 1.6 to 2
cm, which translates to a width of 45 - 57 pixels.  

## Small touch sizes are hard to use in shaking environments

## Links

A link that is part of a paragraph is excluded
from the target size recommendations.  
The target size for the link is the same as the
line height. No need to make it larger.  

## More spacing for small targets

If there are multiple actions on mobile and their
size is 48px or less, then it makes sense to have
more spacing between them.  

## Less spacing for large targets

## Target size that grows with the system font size

## Safe triangle target areas

[How to](https://ishadeed.com/article/target-size#safe-triangle-target-areas)

## Extend target size with pseudo-elements

[How to](https://ishadeed.com/article/target-size#extend-target-size-with-pseudo-elements)

Add padding  
Increase spacing between each row  
Make the labels equal to the largest one  

## Action buttons

Increase button size and spacing  
Display each button it a new line with full width  

## Vertical navigation

The user might expect the full navigation element  
to be clickable.

## Placement of target items

In cases where there is an action item at the top  
and a result at the bottom, the user’s finger on  
mobile might cover the result, making it annoying  
to see the change.

Thumb is covering the result. It’s hard to see  
the changes while my thumb is choosing an option.

The placement of the options should be at the  
bottom.

## Use CSS outline to have a look at the target size

Applying a CSS outline to every link and button  
on the page is a good mechanism. It helps you to  
see the outer box for every interactive element  
on the page.

Adds an outline to every button and link on the  
page plus showing the size of each.

[Source ishadeed.com](https://ishadeed.com/article/target-size#inclusive-target-size)
