# Everything about value key-word auto in CSS 

## Width: auto

The initial width of block-level elements like  
<div> or <p> is auto, which makes them take the  
full horizontal space of their containing block.

### According to the CSS spec:  

‘margin-left’ + ‘border-left-width’ +
‘padding-left’ + ‘width’ + ‘padding-right’ +
‘border-right-width’ + ‘margin-right’ = width of
containing block

A block element, using width: auto makes it fill  
the available space of its parent nicely.

## Height: auto

When it comes to `height`, things are different. The  
height of an element is equal to its content where  
the default value is `auto`.

## Margins and auto keyword

For margins, the most common use case to center  
elements with know widths horizontally.

### According to the CSS spec:

If both ‘margin-left’ and ‘margin-right’ are  
‘auto’, their used values are equal. This  
horizontally centers the element with respect to  
the edges of the containing block.

## Flexbox

When a child item has an auto margin, it will be  
pushed to the far to the opposite side. For  
example, if a flex item has margin-left: auto, it  
will be pushed to the far right.

```css
.wrapper {
  display: flex;
}

.item-2 {
  margin-left: auto;
}
```

Not only that, but it can also work in the either  
horizontal or vertical direction.

Also, if we have only one child element, we can  
use margin: auto to center it horizontally and  
vertically if child is inline element.

```css
.item-1 {
  margin: auto;
}
```

### Flex Property And auto Keyword

In flexbox, we can use flex: auto for a child  
item. What does that mean? Well, let me explain  
that. When a child item has flex: auto, that is  
equivalent to flex: 1 1 auto.

```css
.item {
  flex-grow: 1;
  flex-shrink: 1;
  flex-basis: auto;
}
```

An item with flex: auto will be sized based on its  
width and height, but it can grow or shrink  
depending on the extra space available.

## CSS Grid and auto

We can set a `column` to `auto`, which means its width
will be based on its content length.

```css
.wrapper {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: auto 1fr 1fr;
}
```

When we have a grid, and of the grid items has  
margin-left: auto for example, it will be pushed  
to the right and its width will be based on its  
content length.

## Overflow Property

By using auto keyword instead, we can assure that  
the scrollbar won’t be shown unless the content  
height is bigger than its container.

```css
.element {
  overflow-y: auto;
}
```

## Positioning Properties

To reset the child item in the correct way, we  
should use left: auto. According to MDN:  
The element is positioned where it should  
horizontally be positioned if it were a static  
element.

That means, it will respect the padding and it  
won’t stick the child item to the edge of its  
parent.

## Use Cases and Examples

### Tooltip Arrow

By using 100%, we avoided using a hardcoded value  
(the arrow width) which can fail if we change the  
arrow size. This is a more future-proof solution.

```css
.tooltip:before {
  position: absolute;
  right: 100%;
}

.tooltip.to-right:before {
  /* Arrow code */
  position: absolute;
  right: auto;
  left: 100%;
}
```

### Card Component

By using left: auto, we can reset the base  
implementation of it easily.

```css
.card .icon {
  position: absolute;
  left: 15px;
  top: 15px;
}

.card.is-right .icon {
  left: auto;
  right: 15px;
}
```

### Flexbox and Auto Margins

We have a row that contains a title, description,  
and an action button on the right side. We want  
the action button to stick to the right side.  

By using margin-left: auto, the action is pushed  
to the far right corner.

```html
<div class="item">
  <div class="item-group">
    <!-- Title and description -->
  </div>
  <button class="item__action">Confirm</button>
</div>
```

```css
.item {
  display: flex;
  flex-wrap: wrap;
  justify-content: space-between;
}

.item__action {
  margin-left: auto;
}
```

### CSS Grid and Auto Margins

```html
<p class="input-group">
  <label for="">Full Name</label>
  <input type="email" name="" id="" />
</p>
```

```css
.input-group {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: 1fr;
  grid-gap: 1rem;

  @media (min-width: 700px) {
    grid-template-columns: 0.7fr 2fr;
  }
}
```

I want to align the label to the left edge of the  
input. To do that, I need to apply the following:

```css
.input-group label {
    margin-left: auto;
}
```

### Modal Design

It’s important to account for what would happen  
if the content height is big. it’s important to  
account for what would happen if the content  
height is big.  

```css
.modal-body {
  overflow-y: auto;
}
```
