# Specificity

Specificity is the algorithm used by browsers to
determine the CSS declaration that is the most
relevant to an element, which in turn, determines
the property value to apply to the element. The
specificity algorithm calculates the weight of a
CSS selector to determine which rule from
competing CSS declarations gets applied to an
element.

The specificity algorithm is basically a
three-column value of three categories or weights
- ID, CLASS, and TYPE - corresponding to the three
types of selectors.The specificity algorithm is
basically a three-column value of three categories
or weights - ID, CLASS, and TYPE - corresponding
to the three types of selectors.

## Selector weight categories

The selector weight categories are listed here in
the order of decreasing specificity:

`ID column`  
Includes only ID selectors, such as #example.
For each ID in a matching selector, add 1-0-0 to
the weight value.   

`CLASS column`  
Includes class selectors, such as .myClass,
attribute selectors like [type="radio"] and
[lang|="fr"], and pseudo-classes, such as :hover,
:nth-of-type(3n), and :required. For each class,
attribute selector, or pseudo-class in a matching
selector, add 0-1-0 to the weight value.

`TYPE column`  
Includes type selectors, such as p, h1, and td,
and pseudo-elements like ::before, ::placeholder,
and all other selectors with double-colon
notation. For each type or pseudo-element in a
matching selector, add 0-0-1 to the weight value.

`No value`  
The universal selector (*) and the pseudo-class
:where() and its parameters aren't counted when
calculating the weight so their value is 0-0-0,
but they do match elements. These selectors do not
impact the specificity weight value.

Combinators, such as +, >, ~, " ", and ||, may
make a selector more specific in what is selected
but they don't add any value to the specificity
weight.

The & nesting combinator doesn't add specificity
weight, but nested rules do. In terms of
specificity, and functionality, nesting is very
similar to the :is() pseudo-class.

Like nesting, the :is(), :has(), and negation
(:not()) pseudo-classes themselves add no weight.
The parameters in these selectors, however, do.


