# Function light-dark()

The light-dark() CSS <color> function enables setting two colors for a property - returning one of the two colors options by detecting if the developer has set a light or dark color scheme or the user has requested light or dark color theme - without needing to encase the theme colors within a prefers-color-scheme media feature query. Users are able to indicate their color-scheme preference through their operating system settings (e.g., light or dark mode) or their user agent settings. The light-dark() function enables providing two color values where any <color> value is accepted. The light-dark() CSS color function returns the first value if the user's preference is set to light or if no preference is set and the second value if the user's preference is set to dark.

To enable support for the light-dark() color function, the color-scheme must have a value of light dark, usually set on the :root pseudo-class.

```css  
:root {
  color-scheme: light dark;
}
body {
  color: light-dark(#333b3c, #efefec);
  background-color: light-dark(#efedea, #223a2c);
}
```

## Syntax

```css  
/* Named color values */
color: light-dark(black, white);

/* RGB color values */
color: light-dark(rgb(0 0 0), rgb(255 255 255));

/* Custom properties */
color: light-dark(var(--light), var(--dark));
```

## Values

Functional notation: light-dark(light-color, dark-color)

light-color  
<color> value to be set for light color-scheme.

dark-color  
<color> value to be set for dark color-scheme.

## Example

```css  
:root {
  /* this has to be set to switch between light or dark */
  color-scheme: light dark;

  --light-bg: ghostwhite;
  --light-color: darkslategray;
  --light-code: tomato;

  --dark-bg: darkslategray;
  --dark-color: ghostwhite;
  --dark-code: gold;
}
* {
  background-color: light-dark(var(--light-bg), var(--dark-bg));
  color: light-dark(var(--light-color), var(--dark-color));
}
code {
  color: light-dark(var(--light-code), var(--dark-code));
}
```

In addition to enabling the light-dark() function, the color-scheme property enables overriding a user's color scheme for document sections. Forcing a page section to only use a light or dark color scheme can be done by setting the color-scheme property to light or dark.

```css  
.light {
  /* forces light color-scheme */
  color-scheme: light;
}
.dark {
  /* forces dark color-scheme */
  color-scheme: dark;
}
```
